{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Independent Study Proposal \u8212- Cal Berkeley (1 credit)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Student:} Colby Morris\line {\b Advisor:} Conrad\line {\b Date:} July 15, 2026\line {\b Working title:} Which traits travel into the Bundesliga \u8212- and which source leagues should scouts prioritize?\line {\b Scope:} Bundesliga destination only (narrow one-league inbound study)\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Research question\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When players transfer {\b into the Bundesliga} from other leagues, which performance traits remain {\b stable vs.\u160 ?league-context}, and which {\b source leagues} produce the most effective arrivals?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Two evidence layers:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1329\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2658\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5981\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tier\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Role\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Data backbone\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Headline N\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1329\cellx2658\cellx5981\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tier 1 \u8212- Wide}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Outcomes for {\i all} inbound / first Bundesliga seasons in the study window\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b FBref} player-season stats\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b \u8805 ?500}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1329\cellx2658\cellx5981\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tier 2 \u8212- Deep}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Trait portability + league ranking\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 FBref prior \u8594 ? Bundesliga Y1 per-90; {\b StatsBomb Open Data} as event-level deep dive on a smaller overlap\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Open data now ~{\b 100}; FBref target {\b 500+ paired} seasons\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This extends the NYRB scouting-metric framework ({\b stability \u8594 ? redundancy \u8594 ? pizza / profiles}), focused on {\b which stats travel well} from the prior league into the Bundesliga \u8212- not Transfermarkt market value.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Inbound players are identified from {\b FBref season records} (first Bundesliga season / prior league \u8800 ? Bundesliga), not from scraped Transfermarkt transfer tables.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Is Transfermarkt \u8220"public\u8221"?\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 What\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reality\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx3456\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Browsing}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Site is free to view (transfers, clubs, minutes, values).\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx3456\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bulk scrape / bots}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Transfermarkt Terms of Use ban bots, spiders, and screen scraping, and reserve text/data-mining rights.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx3456\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Official research dump}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Not generally open; they prefer one-off data provision for research requests.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx3456\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Implication for this project}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Use {\b FBref} as the public performance and season source. Use Transfermarkt only via (a) manual spot-checks, (b) Approved contact/request, or (c) a pre-published dataset.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b FBref} (Sports Reference) is the primary public dataset for Tier 1\u8211-2 metrics: viewable online; usable for coursework with attribution and rate-limited access. Respect their terms; do not redistribute raw dumps beyond the course.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Two-tier design (Bundesliga only)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Tier 1 \u8212- Robust FBref sample (headline N \u8805 ? 500)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Who:} All players with a first Bundesliga season (or verified inbound transfer season) over a multi-year window (e.g.\u160 ?last 8\u8211-12 seasons), with a relaxed minutes filter (e.g.\u160 ?\u8805 ?270\u8211-450 Bundesliga minutes in Year 1 so N stays \u8805 ?500).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b What:} Outcome metrics only \u8212- minutes share; per-90 attacking (shots, xG, progressive passes); defending (tackles, pressures, clearances) by position and {\b source league}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Why:} Honest large N; answers \u8220"who succeeds after arrival?\u8221" without needing event data.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Tier 2 \u8212- Portability pipeline (FBref primary; StatsBomb deep dive)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Who:} Subset with measurable prior-season club stats in another league on FBref \u8594 ? target {\b 500+} paired player-seasons.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Pipeline (same order as NYRB):}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Stability} \u8212- for every FBref per-90 stat, correlate prior-league season vs Bundesliga Year-1 (by position). Keep stats that travel well (high cross-league {\i r}).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Redundancy} \u8212- among stable stats, drop near-duplicates (|{\i r}| \u8805 ? 0.70 within position); keep one representative per cluster.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab {\b Pizza charts} \u8212- player profiles built only from that stable + non-redundant set (prior vs Bundesliga avg/top reference lines).\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Source-league ranking:} which prior leagues produce arrivals whose Y1 minutes / profile strength look best on the kept traits.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b StatsBomb Open Data deep dive:} Same stability \u8594 ? redundancy \u8594 ? pizza sequence on the ~{\b 94\u8211-120} open-data overlap (richer event taxonomy). Check whether Event-level conclusions {\b align} with FBref.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Outputs:} traits that transferred well (stability), a short non-redundant scout card (redundancy), interactive pizza charts, and leagues to prioritize.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Data stack\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b FBref} \u8212- primary layer for Tier 1 (N\u8805 ?500 outcomes) and Tier 2 (stability / redundancy / pizza at scale).\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b StatsBomb Open Data} \u8212- deep dive + interactive pizza explorer on the smaller open-data overlap.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab {\b Transfermarkt} \u8212- browse / spot-check only; no scraping.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Open-data stress test already completed: Bundesliga first appearances \u8776 ? {\b 675}; with any prior open-data minutes \u8776 ? {\b 120}; analysis-ready (\u8805 ?90 prior min) \u8776 ? {\b 94} (CM+FB \u8776 ? {\b 35}). That motivates FBref for scale while keeping StatsBomb for depth.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Deliverables (current package)\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1178\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3534\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 #\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 File\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Description\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1178\cellx3534\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 CONRAD_PROPOSAL.docx}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 This proposal as a Word document\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1178\cellx3534\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 interactive_player_explorer.html}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Player dropdown sorted by position; pizza from selected traits; stock fonts\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1178\cellx3534\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 methodology_results_brief.html}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Short method/results brief (tiers, stability, redundancy, leagues, cases)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1178\cellx3534\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 cohort_data.json} / {\f1 README.md}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Open-data cohort artifact + package notes\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Timeline (\u8776 ?3 weeks)\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Week\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Work\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 FBref Bundesliga inbound cohort freeze (Tier 1 N\u8805 ?500); run {\b stability} on all prior\u8594 ?Bundesliga stats\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Redundancy} on stable set; Tier 1 outcomes by source league + position\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Pizza charts} + StatsBomb deep-dive check; PPT / HTML deliverable + review\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Why this works?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Honest N:} Tier 1 guarantees \u8805 ?500 without claiming open data has 500 paired transfers.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Narrow:} only into the Bundesliga.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Clear pipeline:} stability on all stats \u8594 ? redundancy \u8594 ? pizzas from the kept set.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Accurate where it matters:} FBref multi-season performance for the robust model; StatsBomb for a smaller, deeper event dive.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Clean ethics:} FBref-first; Transfermarkt not scraped.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Attributions: FBref / Sports Reference; StatsBomb Open Data (where used).\par}
